hi my name is Andrew Kelly and today I'm
gonna be cooking a dish called colcannon
it's a dish using Albert Bartlett
rooster potatoes some savoy cabbage some
spring onions some butter and a little
bit milk so what I'm going to do is I'm
going to peel the potatoes and boil them
I have some boil and behind me next
thing I'm going to do is take savoy
cabbage I'm going to cut the cabbage in
half then into quarters any outside
leaves I'm going to remove and then I'm
going to remove the core from the
cabbage so first thing I'm going to do
is just slice the cabbage as fine as I
can okay so that's the cabbage sliced so
what I'm going to do now is just put
that into bought a pot of boiling salted
water and cook that roughly two or three
minutes till the cabbage is just tender
okay so where the cabbage is cooking
there I'm just going to mash these
potatoes the potatoes at this point
don't need to be perfectly smooth I
actually prefer them if they have a
little bit of texture to them as well
it's not so cooked in green cabbage I'm
just going to put the cabbage in there
generally about half the quantity of
cabbage to potatoes so one kilo of
potatoes 500 grams of cooked cabbage so
we just took the cabbage so it's tender
just taste a little bit I'm gonna tell
you just thought well a little bait in
it not too soft
so that's a hot potato and cabbage there
so what I'm going to do now is I'm just
going to finish it with the spring
onions and the milk
I'm just going to pour the milk into
there so I'm then going to put the
spring onions into the milk so the time
that comes to the boil that's ready to
go
okay so that's the potato and cabbage
mixed together okay so that's the spring
onions in the milk brought to the boil
so I'm just going to pour that in a bit
at a time so really what we're looking
for here is I can a nice fluffy mashed
potato with a subtle flavour of onion
just coming through from the cabbage and
what I find if you're making this in any
quantity at all whatever we do is put it
into an electric mixer with the paddle
attachment but the paddle attachment go
around slowly just pour your milk in
so what we're looking for here is it's
like an a nice fluffy texture what we
don't want is a wet potato purely so I
think we're almost there now with this
so I'm just going to tip it into a
serving bowl
so the potato needs to be nice and hot
so you can see it's a nice fluffy mashed
potato and to finish that off I'm just
going to put a nice healthy knob of
butter in the middle just to melt over
the potatoes so there we have a hot
steaming bowl of cold cannon so that's
mashed potato sliced cabbage some spring
onions and a nice norm of fresh butter
on the top
you